=head1 NAME

Duck Duck Go translation interface - Translation guidelines (draft)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I'm a Duck Duck Go fan and want to help on the translation work.
How can I do that? 



=head1 DESCRIPTION

Duck Duck Go got it's own translation interface at L<http://dukgo.com/>.

Here are some rules you can use to help us making a better work during the 
translation process. It will act as a simple how-to for :

=over

=item * Translating

=item * Voting

=back 

=head1 BASICS

=head2 The translation interface

=head3 Intro

On L<the Community Platform|http://dukgo.com> you can translate the different 
text snippets of our sites. 
It's a very easy process, by choosing the project part you want to translate you 
get to a list of all existing text snippets, which you can translate step by 
step into your language, you can choose on the top right of the page. 
You can see existing translations on the right, important is here, 
that you don't need to give the same translation again, this would not 
be helpful and just increase your own work.

Please also vote on the translation for your language! You have the option 
to vote for the translation alternative to translate the token yourself. 
By default we only show you totally untranslated tokens (if there exist some), 
but you got a button there to see all tokens.

Go to https://dukgo.com and create an account.

=head3 Set your language skills

In your L<account preferences|http://dukgo.com/my/account>, you have to choose 
for, at least, one language you want to translate to. Then select both of :

=over

=item * Your language, more than 70 are available

=item * Your grade : 

=over

=item * B<Basic ability>: Enough to understand written material or simple questions in this language.

=item * B<Intermediate ability>: Enough for editing or discussions.

=item * B<Advanced level>: Though you can write in this language with no problem, some small errors might occur.

=item * B<"Near-native" level>: Although it's not your first language from birth, your ability is something like that of a native speaker.

=item * B<Native>: You have grown up with this language in your environment.

=item * B<Professional proficiency:> You are earning your money with work in this language (like writer, translator, etc.)

=back

=back  

If you are trying to add a language that is not listed, 
you can L<make a request fo it!|https://dukgo.com/base/requestlanguage> 

=head2 What is i18n?

TODO

=head2 What is i10n?

TODO

=head2 Context


=head3 Why it's important to understand where tokens are?

Lots of text tokens are split up into several small tokens into the translation 
interface. This means that many I<single words> are running around with tokens, 
and without context, it's impossible to give an accurate translation. 

When you whant to translate a token, it would be useful to have an idea of the
place where it is precisely used. It will produce better translations because
as most of the tokens will be assembled into paragraphes or elements to produce a 
general meaning, it's important that it makes sense for you first.

If you don't care about context, we will obtain unusable data and a huge energy loss
for everybody.

=head3 How-to find informations about context ? 

We try to provide context information for each tokens so that the translator can 
understand in which context things are being translated. These informations are
displayed just below of the translation field, in a special B<Token Notes> field.
It should give you special informations that are useful to understand what the token 
is used for, and eventually explain you how to find it (which page, which bloc, how to 
reveal it when it's hidden and much more stuff).

If you take some time to B<read> these  and B<understand> it, it will be B<really> valuable. 

=head1 TRANSLATING

=head1 VOTING

What is important on the voting about the translations? 

=head1 REFERENCES GUIDES THAT WE COULD BE INSPIRED BY

=over

=item * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalization_and_localization

=item * http://wiki.musicbrainz.org/User:Ianmcorvidae/Translation_Process

=item * http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/intro-i18n/

=item * http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html

=item * https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Translations/KnowledgeBase

=item * https://www.oignon.net/getinvolved/translation-overview.html.en

=item * https://help.launchpad.net/Translations/Guidelines

=item * https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/I18N / https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/L10N

=item * http://www-archive.mozilla.org/docs/refList/i18n/

=back 

