# PODNAME: DDGC::Manual::Install
# ABSTRACT: How to set up the development environment

=encoding utf-8

=head1 INSTALLATION

If you can, we suggest you use Debian or Ubuntu for development in 
order to keep your environment similar to ours, though any Linux (or perhaps other Unices) 
will most likely work just fine. Don't take this as a lack of support, however —
we would be glad to help with other environments.

The community platform uses L<Installer> to set up a contained development
environment for itself. All you need to start is a C compiler and some version
of Perl5 >= 5.10, which you likely already have.

To be sure:

    # Debian/Ubuntu and the like
    sudo apt-get install build-essential

    # ArchLinux and friends
    sudo pacman -S base-develo

    # CentOS, RHEL, Fedora
    yum groupinstall "Development tools"

The one command to rule them all:

    curl -s -L http://installer.pm | sh -s ~/ddgc_env

This should install all the dependencies you need. Check out F<.installer> and
L<http://installer.pm> to see exactly what it is doing.

B<Note:> Installer is not currently considered stable, though it has been
working great for us. Let us know if you run into any issues.

=head1 RUNNING

Installer should have started a postgresql daemon for you, so all you have to do
now is fill it with DDGC's test data:

    script/ddgc_deploy_dev.pl --kill

If you want to use the search engine, you should start the opensearch server:

    script/dezi_server.pl &

Then run its indexer over all the test data:

    script/ddgc_index_db.pl

Finally, start the development web server:

    script/ddgc_web_server.pl -r -d

If everything above looks good, you should now be able to access your
development instance of DDGC at L<http://127.0.0.1:3000/>.

There are currently several users in the development database:

=over 4

=item B<testone> - Admin, native German, also speaks English.

=item B<testtwo> - Normal user, speaks Spanish, has a public profile.

=item B<testthree> - Translation manager, speaks English, Arabic and German.

=item B<testfour> - Admin, speaks German, Spanish and English.

=item B<testfive> - Normal user, speaks Russian and English.

=item B<test1> and B<test100> are plain default accounts.

=back

Password-based authentication is disabled in development mode, so you can log
into any of the above with I<any> password.

=head1 ERRORS

We cannot stress enough how important it is to report any issues you encounter
while running DDGC. Create an issue on GitHub, stop by our IRC channel, or send
us an email. Even if you think the issue is your fault, it's probably ours.
