# PODNAME: DDGC::Manual::TODO
# ABSTRACT: TODO Tasks

=encoding utf-8

=head1 Design

Making the token domain language overview on translate/index hidden, load it
via ajax on request. Clicking on token domain leads then to language overview
instead of direct translation.

There is no visual difference between language the user speaks and the ones the
user doesnt speak. In favour of "hey lets look at other languages" i dont
wanted it limited to only the languages the user speaks. Also prevent display
of english language name on english languages ;).

[PRIORITY 1!!!] Missing table design for admin area and general use for lists
(sortable buttons please).

Missing Error / Not Found page (default.tx, error.tx, error.tx must be
independent, more simple HTML variant)

The new Roboduck feature under /roboduck (roboduck/index.tx) needs a bit cooler
HTML. I will probably ask Valentin to make a special logo for that one, like
a dax with robocop helmet and a speech bubble giving the answer.

=head1 Design Errors

Tokenpage has space between the language dropdown/breadcrumb and the actual
token list.

[LOW PRIORITY!!! IGNORE FOR NOW] Account tooltips for the language are not
shown 
* the modal trigger elements lost their "data-reveal-id" info that tells JS
which modal to open.  also, there is a javascript error in jquery.reveal - 
could be a compatibility thing.  I think we should go back to my modified
version. -D - Cant we just use something else for them? or something more
simple? I dont like to "start" with a patched solution ;).....

On the userinfo inside a translation for example, there is still a "clickable"
arrow shown, even tho, that is not clickable (sometimes, sometimes it is).

The complete show off from the other translations should be tuned a bit in
display.

In the comment html (templates_xslate/blog/post_comments.tx) the arrows to
vote for the comment, should be inside the box of the comment, instead of
next to it. Probably a bit of color would be cool.. like green arrow up
and red arrow down, or at least one example of both, so that i can set it
to visualize for the user what he voted on this already. Also the box need
some dropdown to pick the sorting algorythm, like sort by relevance, sort
by newest and so on. The "posted by" and the "about" should be removed, and
we need some "points" in that line for the voting result (or whatever place
if you have a better idea).
* green/red on hover, and if selected green/red permanently? - yes

The blog is ready and needs now tuning cause of several little changes, 2 
sample posts are in.

The translations need a bigger split up
